# Header files

Header files allow us to put declarations in one location and then import them wherever we need them. This can save a lot of typing in multi-file programs.

When you #include a file, the content of the included file is inserted at the point of inclusion. This provides a useful way to pull in declarations from another file.

Header files should generally not contain function and variable definitions, so as not to violate the one definition rule. An exception is made for symbolic constants

A header file consists of two parts:

* Header guard (more on that later)
* The actual content of the header file, which should be the forward declarations for all of the identifiers we want other files to be able to see.

Use a .h suffix when naming your header files.

If a header file is paired with a code file (e.g. add.h with add.cpp), they should both have the same base name (add).

When writing a source file, include the corresponding header (If one exists), even if you don’t need it yet.

``` C++
#include <iostream> //uses angled brackets tell the preprocessor that we are including a header file that was included with the compiler
```

``` C++
#include "header.h" //this is a user-defined header file we are supplying,
```

When including a header file from the standard library, use the no extension version (without the .h) if it exists. User-defined headers should still use a .h extension.

Using g++, you can use the -I option to specify an alternate include directory.

``` bash
g++ -o main -I/source/includes main.cpp
```

Each file should explicitly #include all of the header files it needs to compile. Do not rely on headers included transitively from other headers.

Order your #includes as follows: your own user-defined headers first, then 3rd party library headers, then standard library headers, with the headers in each section sorted alphabetically.

