# 1.1 - Statements and the structure of a program (My abridged version!)

## Statements

* Type of instruction that causes a program to perform some action

* Most common type of instruction

* Smallest independent unit of computation

Type of statements:

1. Declaration statements

2. Jump statements

3. Expression statements

4. Compound statements

5. Selection statements (conditionals)

6. Iteration statements (loops)

7. Try blocks

## Functions and the main function

* A collection of statements that executes sequentially

* When  a program is run, execution starts with the first statement within main

* Functions end when the last statement is run or abort in certain situations

* Functions have a specific job - like max() returning the larger of two numbers

## Dissecting Hello world!

```c++ {.line-numbers}
#include <iostream>
  
int main()
{
    std::cout << "Hello world!";
    return 0;
}
```

Line 1 - preprocessor directive - indicates we need the contents of the iostream library

Line 2 - blank and ignored by the compiler

Line 3 - write (define) a function named main

Line 4 & 7 - everything contained by curly braces is the function body

line 5 - first statement of the main function - will execute first- *std::cout* or "character output" and the << operator send letters to the output to be displayed

line 6 - 0 sent back indicates that everything went well. (note main's return type is int)

## Syntax and syntax errors

syntax - the rules about how your programs must be constructed in order to be considered valid

syntax error - what the compiler will issue if you violate a rule

## Quiz time

<details>
<summary>What is a statement?</summary>

An instruction to the computer to perform an action
</details>

<details>
<summary>What is a function?</summary>

A collection of statements that execute sequentially, to usually complete a specific task
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is the name of the function that all programs must have?</summary>

main
</details>
<details>
<summary>When a program is run, where does the execution start?</summary>

First statement in main
</details>
<details>
<summary>What symbol are statement in C++ often ended with?</summary>

semi-colon
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is a syntax error?</summary>

error given by the compiler issued at compile time if the program violates the grammar rules of C++
</details>
<details>
<summary>What is the C++ standard library?</summary>

A collection of pre-compiled code for reuse in programs. Contains functionality such as cout
</details>