# 2.9 — Naming collisions and an introduction to namespaces

A **naming collision** or naming conflict is when the compiler or linker cannot tell two identifiers apart. 

Most naming collisions occur in two cases:

* 2 or more definitions for a a function (or global variable) are introduced into separate files and then compiled into the same program.
* 2 or more definitions for a function (or global variable) are introduced in the the same file (often via an #include). This will result in a compiler error.

A **namespace** is a region that allows you to declare names inside of it for the purpose of disambiguation. The namespace provides a scope (called **namespace scope**) to the names declared inside of it

**Key insight** - A name declared in a namespace won’t be mistaken for an identical name declared in another scope.

Any name that is not defined inside a class, function, or a namespace is considered to be part of an implicitly defined namespace called the **global namespace**.

Ways to tell the compiler that an identifier lives in a namespace:

1. Explicit namespace qualifier std::

``` C++
std::cout << "We know this one!" << "\n";
```

The :: symbol is an operator called the **scope resolution operator**. The identifier to the left of the :: symbol identifies the namespace that the name to the right of the :: symbol is contained within. If no identifier to the left of the :: symbol is provided, the global namespace is assumed.

2. Using namespace std (and why to avoid it)

tells the compiler to check a specified namespace when trying to resolve an identifier that has no namespace prefix.

Using statement can be bad practice because if you have an identifier with the same name from the namespace you are using, the compiler won't know which to use. It is better to use:

``` C++
using std::cout; 
```

at the top instead, for instance.
