# 1.3 - Introduction to variables

## Data

**Data** - is any information that can be moved. processed or stored by the a computer.

**Programs** - collections of instructions that manipulate data to produce a desired result.

## Objects and variables

A value is a single piece of data that is stored in RAM (Random Access Memory)

Accessing the data directly, aptly named **direct memory access** is *not allowed*. instead, memory can be accessed indirectly with an **object**. An object is a region of storage (usually memory) that has a value and other associated properties.

Objects can be named or unnamed (anonymous). A named object is a **variable**, and the name of the object is called an **identifier**.

## Variable instantiation

**definition** - Special type of declaration statment used to create a variable.

Example:

``` c++
int x; // define a var x of type integer
```

When a program is run, the variable will be instantiated, which is a fancy word that means an object will be created and assigned a memory address. Variables must be instatiated before they are used to store values. An instantiated object is sometimes also called an instance.

In C++, the type of a variable must be known at compile-time (when the program is compiled), and that type can not be changed without recompiling the program. This means an integer variable can only hold integer values. If you want to store some other kind of value, you’ll need to use a different variable.

An **integer** is a number that can be written without a fractional component.

## defining multiple variables

It is possible to define multiple variables of the same type in a single statement - seperated by a comma.

``` c++
int a,b;
```

is the same as:

``` c++
int a;
int b;
```
