# 2.7 — Forward declarations and definitions

The compiler compiles the contents of code files sequentially.

**Best practice** - When addressing compile errors in your programs, always resolve the first error produced first and then compile again.

One option to make functions available throughout the program is to define them at the top of the program.

The next option is using a **forward declaration** which will tell the compiler of a function before actually defining it. To write a forward declaration for a function, we use a declaration statement called a function prototype. The function prototype consists of the function’s return type, name, parameters, but no function body.

``` C++
int function_prototype(int parameter); //no body needed
int other_function(int); //don't need to name parameter either
```

**Best practice** - When defining function prototypes, keep the parameter names. You can easily create forward declarations by using copy/paste on your function declaration. Don’t forget the semicolon on the end.

___

if a forward declaration is made and the function is called, but the program never defines the function, the program will compile okay, but the linker will complain that it can’t resolve the function call.

---

A **definition** actually implements (for functions or types) or instantiates (for variables) the identifier.

Functions that share an identifier but have different parameters are considered to be distinct functions.

A declaration is a statement that tells the compiler about the existence of an identifier and its type information.